To add some basic validation
we can manage more state.
We can add enteredNameIsValid state
and a setEnteredNameIsValid state updating function
which we get from useState.
And, here, we now want to start with false
so that initially the entered name is not valid.
And we can then set this to true
if the entered name is a valid.
So therefore here in the form submission handler,
if the input is invalid, then I want to set,
setEnteredNameIsValid to false because it is not valid here.
If we make it past this if check,
we can set enteredNameIsValid to true
because if we make it past this if check,
the value is valid.
And now we could use enteredNameIsValid
to show an error message.
Here below this input,
inside this form control div,
we could add a paragraph where we, for example,
say, "Name must not be empty."
And I only want to show this paragraph
if enteredNameIsValid is false.
So if it's not valid.
Now we of course learned
how we can show content conditionally in React.
And hence, here we can apply what we learned.
We can check if not,
hence the exclamation mark, enteredNameIsValid.
And if that's the case, we output this paragraph.
Otherwise we don't do anything.
And we can give this paragraph a class name
of error-text because that's one
of the predefined CSS classes I added here in index CSS
for some basic styling.
With that, I get this error
but now I also get this error before I even start typing.
So maybe we instead want to start
with setting this to true initially.
So that enteredNameIsValid is true initially.
With that, if I save here
we don't see the error message initially,
but if I click submit, it now shows up.
So this would be one way
of adding basic validation to this form and of making sure
that we give the users some feedback if things go wrong.
Now I actually prepared more validation feedback
which we can add
and that affects this CSS class
which is added on that div, that form control clause.
I'm not using CSS modules here
but old-school CSS classes which are set up globally
and then simply used here.
I did prepare a special invalid CSS class
which affects the input look, and therefore
I want to swap form control for form control and invalid,
if this input is invalid.
So here I could add a const nameInputClasses
and that depends on whether the enteredNameIsValid.
If that's true, then I want to add just form control
as a class.
Otherwise I want to add form-control
and invalid as classes.
And now a class name here is dynamic
and points at nameInputClasses.
NameInputClasses.
So these classes, which we're deriving here.
And with that, if I save this,
if I reload, we got this look.
If I submit this empty form, I got this look
which looks a bit better.
Now that is some perfectly fine validation
which you could add, but it has some downsides
at which I now want to take a closer look.